## Page:
[[Discrete mathematical structures.pdf#page=61]]

## Notes:

- #SetDefinition : a well-defined collection of objects.
- #EmptySet : the set with no elements.
- #SetEquality : two equal sets are sets with the same elements.
- #Subsets : If A is a subset of B ($A \subseteq B$), then every element of A is an element of B.
- #SetCardinality : |A| (cardinality of A) = the number of elements of A.
- #InfiniteSet : The set that is not finite (has n distinct elements, where $n \in N$).
- #PowerSet : P(A) (power set of A) = set of all subsets of A.
- #SetsUnion : The union of A and B ($A \cup B$) = {$x \space | \space x \in A \space or \space x \in B$}.
- #SetsIntersection : The intersection of A and B ($A \cap B$) = {$x \space | \space x \in A \space and \space x \in B$}.
- #DisjointSets : two sets with no elements in common.
- #SetsDifference : A - B (complement of B with respect to A) = {$x \space | \space x \in A \space and \space x \notin B$}.
- #AdditionPrincipleOfSets : If A and B are finite sets, then |$A \cup B$| = |A| + |B| - |$A \cap B$|.
- #AdditionPrincipleOfSets : If A, B, and C are finite sets, then |$A \cup B \cup C$| = |A| + |B| + |C| - |$A \cap B$| - |$A \cap C$| - |$B \cap C$| + |$A \cap B \cap C$|.
- #Sequences : lists of objects in a definite order.
- #RecursiveFormulaForSequences : a formula that uses previously defined terms.
- #ExplicitFormulaForSequences : a formula that computes the elements based on the positions that they are occupying in the sequence.
- #CharacteristicFunctionOfSets : If A is a set, then $f_A(x) = 1 \space if \space x \in A, \space 0 \space if \space x \notin A$.
- #CountableSet : a set that corresponds to a sequence.
- #Word : finite sequence of elements of A.
- #DivisionInTheIntegers : Theorem: If n $\neq$ 0 and m are nonnegative integers, we can write m = qn + r for some nonnegative integers q and r with 0 $\le$ r $\lt$ n. Moreover, there is just one way to do this.
- #GreatesCommonDivisor : d = GCD(a, b) if d is the largest common divisor of a nd b.
- #GreatesCommonDivisor : Theorem: If d is GCD(a,b), then (a) d = sa +tb for some integers s and t, (b) If c | a and c | b, then c | d.
- #RelativelyPrimeNumbers : two integers a and b with GCD(a, b) = 1.
- #LeastCommonMultiple : c = LCM(a, b) if c is the smallest common multiple of a and b.
- #Mod-NFunction : $f_n$(z) = r, where z $\equiv$ r (mod n).
- #MatrixDefinition : a rectangular array of numbers.
- #SizeOfAMatrix : A is m x n if it has m rows and n column.
- #DiagonalMatrix : a square matrix with zero entries off the main diagonal.
- #MatricesEquality : two matrices are equal if they are the same size and the corresponding entries are equal.
- #MatricesSummation : A + B is the matrix obtained by adding corresponding entries of A and B.
- #ZeroMatrix : a matrix all of whose entries are zero.
- #IdentityMatrix : a square matrix with 1's on the diagonal and 0's elsewhere.
- #Transpose : If A is a matrix, then $A^T$ (transpose of A) is the matrix obtained from A by interchaging the rows and column of A.
- #SymmetricMatrix : A = $A^T$.
- #MathematicalStructure : a collection of objects with operations defined on them and the accompanying properties.
- #BinaryOperations : operations that combines two objects.
- #UnaryOperations : operations that requires only one object.
- #ClosureProperty : each application of the operation produces another object in the collection.