- **Classification** - based on a data set of the form (**input - output**), a system is build that detects the associations between the **input data** and the labels associated with them. The labels or the classes, are from a discrete, finite set. Classification is used for automatic shape recognition, speech recognition, medical diagnosis and other applications where the classification of certain objects is needed.
- **Conditional probability estimation** - similar to classification, but a system is produced that estimates the probability that an object belongs to a class, given the input features. For example, given the content of an email message, what is the probability that it is legitimate or spam.
- **Regression** - similar to classification, but the outputs are not from a discrete and finite set, but continuous numerical values.
- **Data retrieval based on content, using associative memory** - can retrieve data based on a part of it. It is a mechanism different from the way computers retrieve information (based on addresses or a search) but close to the way in which items retained by a person are retrieved.
- **Automatic grouping (clustering)** - based on the existing similarities in a data set, data groupings are detected. Elements in one group are closer to each other than to others in another group.
- **Automatic feature detection** - of those elements that make the process of recognizing an object better than if domain-specific knowledge is used.
- **Control of systems** - used when a process must be guided to perform a certain task, with certain constraints. The usefulness of neural networks comes from the fact that it is not assumed that there are linear dependencies between action and effect.